NAME: Atisha Shaurya
Emp I'd: 1712


Day 1


1. what are monolithic and microservices?

Monolithic architecture is built as one large system and is usually one code-baseIt has shared database
Microservices architecture is built as small independent module based on business functionality
Each project and module has their own database

2. what are spirits?

sprint is a set period of time during which specific work has to be completed and made ready for review.Each sprint begins with a planning meeting

3. difference between agile and DevOps? 

Agile	DevOps Agile refers to an iterative approach which focuses on collaboration, customer feedback, and small, rapid releases.	DevOps is considered a practice of bringing development and operations teams together.
Purpose  =	Agile helps to manage complex projects.	DevOps central concept is to manage end-to-end engineering processes.
Task =	Agile process focusses on constant changes.	DevOps focuses on constant testing and delivery.


Day 2


1. what are the Features of kernel?

A core feature of any operating system, the kernel manages communication between hardware and software. The kernel is responsible for managing memory, and I/O to memory, cache, the hard drive, and other devices. It also handles device signals, task scheduling, and other essential duties.

2. difference between linux and windows operating system?

	Linux                                          	                                   Windows
a.	Linux is a open source operating system.	                       While windows are the not the open source operating system.
b.	Linux is free of cost.	                                              While it is costly.
c.	It’s file name case-sensitive.	                               While it’s file name is case-insensitive.
d.	In linux, monolithic kernel is used.	                               While in this, micro kernel is used.
e.	Linux is more efficient in comparison of windows.	                While windows are less efficient.
f.	There is forward slash is used for Separating the directories.	While there is back slash is used for Separating the directories.
g.	Linux provides more security than windows.	                        While it provides less security than linux.

3.What do you mean by opensource?

 Open source software is code that is designed to be publicly accessible—anyone can see, modify.
 
 Explain the output of "ls -l" command
 
 It give the list of the following directory.
 
 How to create multipple files with single command?
 
 touch file1 file2 file3
 
 Where are unit files located?
 
 /usr/lib/systemd
 
 4. What are an absolute path and relative path?
 Absolute path is exact path where we want to go and relative path is present path
 
 5.What are hard links?
 
 Hard link are just like copy of that file with same Inodes .
 
 After ll command what is the arrow indicates to and what it is pointing to?
 
 It show the complete detail of files present in that directory . 
 
 6.What does srv contain and why is it empty?
 
 In this service data is stored i.e. if u want to run the web server , you will store the file here .
 
 7.What does the mnt directory contain?
 
 temporary mount points for mounting storage devices, such as CDROMs, floppy disks and USB , key drives.

8.How does cgroup be different from namespace?

cgroups limit you use 
namespace limit what you can use 

In vim how can we search inside the file?
/search 

9 .How to delete files in vim editor?

Shift+d and then y

10.Difference between wq and x? 
wq = save and exit 
x = exit without save

11.what are hidden files in linux

files used in order to execute some scripts or to store configuration about some services on your host.

12.How to identify which type of file is this?

ls -lah

13.Why lib,lib64 is in a different color?

Files that can be used for various functions
chang in color may depends upon link, directory, image etc.



